torch 0.2.0 blogpost (#132)
rstudio/ai-blog: _posts/2020-12-11-torch-0.2.0-released/torch-0.2.0-released.Rmd

will run the pre-processing in parallel workers. 

For example if we have the following dummy dataset that does
a long computation:

```{r}
library(torch)
dat <- dataset(
  "mydataset",
  initialize = function(time, len = 10) {
    self$time <- time
    self$len <- len
  },
  .getitem = function(i) {
    Sys.sleep(self$time)
    torch_randn(1)
  },
  .length = function() {
    self$len
  }
)
ds <- dat(1)
system.time(ds[1])
```
```
   user  system elapsed 
  0.029   0.005   1.027 
```

We will now create 2 dataloaders, one that executes
sequentially and another executing in parallel.

```{r}
seq_dl <- dataloader(ds, batch_size = 5)
par_dl <- dataloader(ds, batch_size = 5, num_workers = 2)
```

We can now compare the time to take 2 batches sequentially
and the time that it takes in parallel:

```{r}
seq_it <- dataloader_make_iter(seq_dl)
par_it <- dataloader_make_iter(par_dl)

two_batches <- function(it) {
  dataloader_next(it)
  dataloader_next(it)
  "ok"
}

system.time(two_batches(seq_it))
system.time(two_batches(par_it))
```
```
   user  system elapsed 
  0.098   0.032  10.086 
   user  system elapsed 
  0.065   0.008   5.134 
```

> Note that batches are obtained in parallel, not individual observations. This is to support, in the future, other kinds

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Note that it is batches that are obtained in parallel, not individual observations. Like that, we will be able to support
```

> of datasets that might have variable batch sizes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
datasets with variable batch sizes in the future.
```

Using multiple workers is **not** necessarily faster than serial execution because there's a considerable overhead 
when passing tensors from a worker to the main session as
well as when initializing the workers. 

> This feature is powered by the powerful [{callr}](https://github.com/r-lib/callr) package 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This feature is enabled by the powerful [{callr}](https://github.com/r-lib/callr) package 
```

> and works in all OS's supported by {torch}. [{callr}](https://github.com/r-lib/callr) let's

Reviewer: ```suggestion
and works in all operating systems supported by {torch}. [{callr}](https://github.com/r-lib/callr) let's
```

> us create persistent R sessions thus, we only pay once the overhead of transferring potentially large datasets

Reviewer: ```suggestion
us create persistent R sessions, and thus, we only pay once the overhead of transferring potentially large dataset
```

objects to workers.

In the process of implementing this feature we have made 
dataloaders behave like [{coro}](https://github.com/r-lib/coro) iterators. 
This means that you can now use [{coro}](https://github.com/r-lib/coro)'s syntax 

> to loop trough the dataloaders:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
for looping through the dataloaders:
```

```{r}
coro::loop(for(batch in par_dl) {
  print(batch$shape)
})
```

```
[1] 5 1
[1] 5 1
```

> This is the first {torch} release including the multiworker

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This is the first {torch} release including the multi-worker
```

> dataloaders feature and you might run into edge cases when

Reviewer: ```suggestion
dataloaders feature, and you might run into edge cases when
```

> using it. Do let us know if you find any problem.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
using it. Do let us know if you find any problems.
```

## Initial JIT support

Programs that make use of the {torch} package are inevitably

> R programs thus, they always need an R installation in order

Reviewer: ```suggestion
R programs and thus, they always need an R installation in order
```

to execute.

As of version 0.2.0, {torch} allows users to JIT *trace* 
{torch} R functions into TorchScript. The nice thing about

> this is that TorchScript programs are easily serializable, 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
this is that TorchScript programs are easily serializable and 
```

Author: serializable, optimizable and they... seems strange to change to serializable and optimizable and they

> optimizable and they can be loaded in another program writen

Reviewer: ```suggestion
optimizable, and they can be loaded by another program written
```

in PyTorch or LibTorch without requiring any R dependency.

> Suppose you have the following R function that takes a tensor

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Suppose you have the following R function that takes a tensor,
```

> and does a matrix multiplication with a fixed weight matrix and

Reviewer: ```suggestion
does a matrix multiplication with a fixed weight matrix, and
```

Author: should I really remove 'and' here?

then adds a bias term:

```{r}
w <- torch_randn(10, 1)
b <- torch_randn(1)
fn <- function(x) {
  a <- torch_mm(x, w)
  a + b
}
```

> This function can be JIT traced into TorchScript with `jit_trace` by passing the function and example inputs: 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This function can be JIT-traced into TorchScript with `jit_trace` by passing the function and example inputs: 
```

```{r}
x <- torch_ones(2, 10)
tr_fn <- jit_trace(fn, x)
tr_fn(x)
```
```
torch_tensor
-0.6880
-0.6880
[ CPUFloatType{2,1} ]
```

Now all {torch} operations that happened when computing the result of 
this function were traced and transformed into a graph:

```{r}
tr_fn$graph
```
```
graph(%0 : Float(2:10, 10:1, requires_grad=0, device=cpu)):
  %1 : Float(10:1, 1:1, requires_grad=0, device=cpu) = prim::Constant[value=-0.3532  0.6490 -0.9255  0.9452 -1.2844  0.3011  0.4590 -0.2026 -1.2983  1.5800 [ CPUFloatType{10,1} ]]()
  %2 : Float(2:1, 1:1, requires_grad=0, device=cpu) = aten::mm(%0, %1)
  %3 : Float(1:1, requires_grad=0, device=cpu) = prim::Constant[value={-0.558343}]()
  %4 : int = prim::Constant[value=1]()
  %5 : Float(2:1, 1:1, requires_grad=0, device=cpu) = aten::add(%2, %3, %4)
  return (%5)
```

The traced function can be serialized with `jit_save`:

```{r}
jit_save(tr_fn, "linear.pt")
```

It can be reloaded in R with `jit_load`, but it can also be reloaded in Python
with `torch.jit.load`:

```{python}
import torch
fn = torch.jit.load("linear.pt")
fn(torch.ones(2, 10))
```

```
tensor([[-0.6880],
        [-0.6880]])
```

> How cool is that?!

Reviewer: very cool indeed!

> This is just the initial support for the JIT in R. We will continue developing 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This is just the initial support for JIT in R. We will continue developing 
```

> this, specially, in the next version of {torch} we plan to support tracing `nn_modules` directly. Currently, you need to detach all parameters before 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
this. Specifically, in the next version of {torch} we plan to support tracing `nn_modules` directly. Currently, you need to detach all parameters before 
```

> tracing them, see an example [here](https://github.com/mlverse/torch/blob/master/tests/testthat/test-trace.R#L27-L71). This will allow you also to take benefit of TorchScript to make your models

Reviewer: ```suggestion
tracing them; see an example [here](https://github.com/mlverse/torch/blob/master/tests/testthat/test-trace.R#L27-L71). This will allow you also to take benefit of TorchScript to make your models
```
```suggestion
tracing them, see an example [here](https://github.com/mlverse/torch/blob/master/tests/testthat/test-trace.R#L27-L71). This will also allow you to benefit from TorchScript to make your models
```

run faster!

> Also note that tracing has some limitations, specially when your code has loops

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Also note that tracing has some limitations, especially when your code has loops
```

or control flow statements that depend on tensor data. See `?jit_trace` to 
learn more.

> ## New printing method for `nn_modules`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## New print method for `nn_modules`
```

In this release we have also improved the `nn_module` printing methods in order

> to make it easier to understand what they are holding.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
to make it easier to understand what's inside.
```

For example, if you create an instance of an `nn_linear` module you will
see:

```{r}
nn_linear(10, 1)
```
```
An `nn_module` containing 11 parameters.

── Parameters ──────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────
● weight: Float [1:1, 1:10]
● bias: Float [1:1]
```

> You will quickly find the total number of parameters in the module as well as 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You immediately see the total number of parameters in the module as well as 
```

> the their name and shape.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
their names and shapes.
```

> This also works for custom modules, that might also include sub-modules, for example:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This also works for custom modules (possibly including sub-modules). For example:
```

```{r}
my_module <- nn_module(
  initialize = function() {
    self$linear <- nn_linear(10, 1)
    self$param <- nn_parameter(torch_randn(5,1))
    self$buff <- nn_buffer(torch_randn(5))
  }
)
my_module()
```
```
An `nn_module` containing 16 parameters.

── Modules ─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────
● linear: <nn_linear> #11 parameters

── Parameters ──────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────
● param: Float [1:5, 1:1]

── Buffers ─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────
● buff: Float [1:5]
```

> We hope that it makes easier to navigate understand the  `nn_module` objects. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We hope this makes it easier to understand `nn_module` objects. 
```

We have also improved autocomplete support for `nn_modules` and we will now
show all sub-modules, parameters and buffers while you type.

## torchaudio

{torchaudio} is an extension for {torch} developed by [Athos Damiani](https://github.com/athospd) ([`@athospd`](https://github.com/athospd)), providing audio loading, transformations, common architectures for signal processing, pre-trained weights and access to commonly used datasets. An almost literal translation from PyTorch’s Torchaudio library to R.

> {torchaudio} is not yet on CRAN but you can already try the development version

Reviewer: ```suggestion
{torchaudio} is not yet on CRAN, but you can already try the development version
```

available [here](https://github.com/curso-r/torchaudio).

You can also visit the {pkgdown} [website](https://curso-r.github.io/torchaudio/) for examples and reference documentation.

## Other features and bug fixes

Thanks to community contributions we have found and fixed many bugs in {torch}.
We have also added new features including:

- `element_size` and `bool` Tensor methods by [`@dirkschumacher`](https://github.com/dirkschumacher)
- checking the MD5 hashes of downloaded LibTorch binaries by [`@dirkschumacher`](https://github.com/dirkschumacher)
- initial development for the Distributions module by [`@krzjoa`](https://github.com/krzjoa)
- the `nn_batch_norm3d` module implemented by [`@mattwarkentin`](https://github.com/mattwarkentin)

> - a Dockerfile with GPU support as well as an [installation guide](https://github.com/mlverse/torch/blob/master/docker/build_env_guide.md) by [`@y-vectorfield`](https://github.com/y-vectorfield)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- a dockerfile with GPU support as well as an [installation guide](https://github.com/mlverse/torch/blob/master/docker/build_env_guide.md) by [`@y-vectorfield`](https://github.com/y-vectorfield)
```

Author: The dockerfile is always uppercase :)

You can see the full list of changes in the [NEWS.md](https://github.com/mlverse/torch/blob/master/NEWS.md) file.

> Thanks very much for reading this blog post and feel free to reach out on GitHub for help or discussions!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Thanks very much for reading this blog post, and feel free to reach out on GitHub for help or discussions!
```
